Once we have our AWS account set up, head along to console.aws .amazon .com.
Here you'll be able to log into your AWS account,
allowing you access to the AWS Management Console.
I've already logged into my account,
so I'm taking directly to the homepage of the AWS Management Console.
The AWS Management Console is a web application that allows us
to interact with AWS products and services.
We'll be taking a brief look around the console to make sure you understand
the basics of the console and how to navigate around it.
Our focus will be on Amazon's DynamoDB.
If you are after a more in-depth look at the AWS Console,
then there's a really good Pluralsight course called
Navigating the AWS Management Console that will take you
through a more in-depth look of the console.
Let's first have a look at where we can view and manage our account.
If we select our name on the top-right hand corner,
and select My Account, we are presented with the Account Settings page.
This includes contact and other information,
and at the bottom of this page is where you can close your account.
If we now select the Dashboard tab,
we are presented with the Billing and Cost Management Dashboard.
This page shows us a breakdown of what our previous month's spend was,
what are current spenders, and based on their usage,
what the forecasted spend is for this month.
For further breakdown of what we're spending for each service,
we can head along to the Bills tab.
This allows us to get a more in-depth look at what our spending is for
each product or service that we have inside of AWS.
If I click the drop-down arrow for DynamoDB,
under the AWS Service Charges, and select US West Oregon,
we get a more in-depth look at what our costs are.
Our Dynamo table that we will be creating will be in the
Free Tier range that is offered by AWS.
Now, if we click the AWS logo on the top-left of the page,
we'll be taken back to the AWS Console homepage.
When we open the My Account Settings page,
a new tab was opened, so I'm just going to close the previous tab.
AWS is hosted in many different regions.
If we select the current region that is selected for us,
Oregon, we are shown the different regions that are available to us.
AWS's products and services are hosted in separate
geographic areas called regions.
We can create our services or host our applications in each of these regions.
It's important to note that all regions have all
services and features available.
So before creating or setting up any AWS product or service,
first check what you are trying to create is available in that region.
For our demo, we'll be creating our DynamoDB table in Oregon.
On the main AWS Console page, we are able to search for AWS products or services.
So for example, if we put DynamoDB into the search bar,
we are shown the link to DynamoDB.
If we don't know the name of the product or service we are looking for,
then we can select the Services drop-down menu that is on the top-left.
This drop-down shows us all products and services that are offered by AWS.
These are ordered into categories, for instance,
if we look under Database, we have DynamoDB.
This is the database that this course will be focusing on.
And to make it easier to navigate to a product or service that you commonly use,
we can add a shortcut to the AWS Management Console.
On the navigation bar, choose the push-pin icon,
and drag a service from the menu to the navigation bar.
You can add more shortcuts and drop them into your navigation bar in any order that you want.